Access
======

Defining access to actions through calls to allow/deny

Example
=======

  #you cat rewrite access_denied which by default redirects to '/'
  access_denied

  #allow/deny all actions if there are no other rules for action
  allow_by_default
  deny_by_default

  #allow/deny all following actions
  allow
  deny

  #now explanation of rules (examples for allow can be applied to deny)

  #allow index and show
  allow :index, :show

  #allow all actions if admin? evaluates to true
  allow :if => :admin?

  #allow index and show if admin? evaluates to true
  allow :index, :show, :if => :admin?

  #allow index and show if admin? or user? (string evaluates in context of controller instance)
  allow :index, :show, :if => 'admin? || user?'

  #allow index and show if admin? or user? (proc evaluates in context of controller instance)
  allow :index, :show, :if => proc{ admin? || user? }

  #allow index and show if admin? or user?
  allow :index, :show, :if => [:admin?, :user?]

  #allow index and show if admin? and odd_day?
  allow :index, :show, :if_all => [:admin?, :odd_day?]

  #allow index and show if admin? and odd_day? or user? and even_day?
  allow :index, :show, :if => [[:admin?, :odd_day?], [:user?, :even_day?]]

  #allow index and show unless bad_user? or robot?
  allow :index, :show, :unless => [:bad_user?, :robot?]

  #allow index and show unless bad_user? and was_here_today?
  allow :index, :show, :unless_all => [:bad_user?, :was_here_today?]

  #rules override each other (order of rules is important)
  #index can be accessed by anyone except bad_user
  #new can be accessed by admin or user with special key but not by bad_user or robot (ever if he has special key)
  #all other actions are inaccessible
  deny_by_default
  allow :index
  allow :new, :if => [:admin?, :has_special_key?]
  deny :if => :bad_user?
  deny :new, :if => :robot?

  #example
  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    deny_by_default
  end

  class PostController < ApplicationController
    allow :index, :show, :new, :create
    allow :edit, :update, :if => :owner
    allow :destroy, :if => :admin?
    deny :new, :create, :if => [:bad_user, :wrote_post_for_last_5_minutes?]
    deny :edit, :update, :if => :bad_user

    def index
      ...
    end

    def show
      ...
    end

    def new
      ...
    end

    def edit
      ...
    end

    def create
      ...
    end

    def update
      ...
    end

    def destroy
      ...
    end
  end
